# Sort Algorithms Comparison
For full report in English see `REPORT.md`.

In this work 4 sorting algorithms -- **Insertion sort**, **Merge Sort**, **Selection Sort** and **Shell Sort** -- were implemented and compared in time and number of comparisons in 4 different cases:
* **Random array** (5 experiments were performed and average value was taken). Max value -- array size+1
* **Ascending array** with values already sorted. Max value -- array size+1
* **Descending array** with values sorted in reverse order. Max value -- array size + 1
* **Random Low array** -- contains only elements from the set *{1, 2, 3}* - that is, the array with many repeated elements (3 experiments were performed and the average value was taken)

Each of the 4 algorithms was ran in all of the 4 cases mentioned above for arrays of size 2^7, 2^8, .. up to 2^15 inclusive (array size step = 2)

The result of the experiments are graphs, built with **matplotlib**

## Run experiment
If you want to reproduce the experiment on your machine, follow the instructions bellow.

Create build folder and run `cmake` and than `make` from there. This will create C++ executable file called **sort** in **bin/** directory. You can then run this executable. This will print experiments results to the console output and generate `.txt` file in project root that will contain formatted data -- experiments outcome. Run following commands:
``` sh
$ mkdir build && cd build
$ cmake .. -G"Unix Makefiles"
$ make
$ cd ..
$ ./bin/sort
```

You can also run `visualize.py` to generate graphs from data in `.txt`. First create virtual environment (optional) and install **matplotlib**; then run python program to generate graphs. Commands (assuming that you've done previous step -- you've generated `.txt` file with experiments data and your currently directory is project root):
``` sh
$ python3 -m venv venv
$ source ./venv/bin/activate
$ pip install matplotlib

$ python3 visualize.py
```
You will then see graphs been changed in **graphs/** directory.

Note, that generating graphs requires that you have **graphs/** directory created and `.txt` file generated by C++ program in correct format. Otherwise graphs won't be created.

## Author
Yaroslav Revera, UCU CS student
